<!--
Copyright 2021 The Crashpad Authors. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# iOS Crashpad Overview Design

[TOC]

## iOS Limitations

Crashpad on other platforms captures exceptions out-of-process. On iOS, however, applications are may not delegate work to their own separate processes. This limitations means Crashpad on iOS must combine the work of the handler and the client to the same processes of the main applications.

### The Crashpad In-Process Handler

In-process handling comes with a number of limitations and difficulties. It's not possible to catch the main Mach exception EXC_CRASH, so certain groups of
crashes cannot be captured by iOS.  This includes some major ones, like Out-Of-Memory crashes.  This also introduces difficulties in capturing all the relevant crash data and writing the minidump, as the process itself is in an
unsafe state.

The handler may not:

 - Allocate memory
 - Use libc, or most any library calls.
 - Use usespace.

The handler may only:

 - Use audited syscalls.
 - vm_read all memory.

Due to these limitations, it is not possible to write a minidump to the Crashpad database.

### The Crashpad IntermediateDump Format

Generating a real minidump requires too much from a crashed process, so a simple
intermediate dump file is generated by streaming serially all the data necessary to generate a
minidump later.

The file format is similar to binary JSON, supporting keyed properties, maps and arrays.  The
format supports the commands:

 - Property (key, value length and value buffer)
 - StartMap, StartArray (key)
 - EndMap, EndArray, EndDocument

Similar to JSON, maps can contain other maps, arrays and properties.

### The Crashpad In-Process Client

Unlike other platforms, the client must also convert intermediate dumps to minidumps.  As this can be data intensive, two iOS unique APIs are available:

- ProcessIntermediateDumps  
APIs to to convert intermediate dumps to minidumps.

 - EnableUploading  
API to being using network and upload pending reports.


